So were able to successfully get our user to log in now we need to work on the Snap's activity to say
that you know we have some options for them we should provide a little menu option here.
And if they want to create a new snap or they want to log out we should provide that functionality.
So let's get back to android studio.
Let's bring up the project for you and I'm going to move this back to android.
I think visually for me this is just a little bit easier to work with.
So now that we've got this in place right we can get to you know our main activity and stuff.
But here inside of the Rez if we don't already have a Menu folder we need to create one song right click
and say new and we want to do Android resource directory.
We're going to go ahead and change this to be for a menu and that will properly change the name there.
We'll just go ahead and hit.
OK.
We're going to Right-Click this menu and say that we want a new and we need a menu resource file so
you can choose what you want to call this.
I'm just going to call this Snap's and we'll go ahead and hit.
OK.
And now with that in place we've got the snapshot ex-MIL.
I like to always go into the text version of this in order to go and add items so I'm going to say inside
of here I want to add an item.
Let's go ahead and give it an I.D..
We'll do our app plus ID and call the first option that we have should be able to create a new Snap's
or world.
Just call this create snap and then we're going to provide a title here which I'm going to call Create
Capital snap clean up a little bit right.
And then let's go ahead and make a second option or item here to log out so will say item we need an
ID that will just simply call log out and we'll go ahead and change that title to be capital log out.
So with that in place we should see a menu that looks like this where we can create a snap and log out.
Then we need to go over to our Snap's activity and make it so that we can actually go ahead and create
this menu.
So first step that we need to do is we need to make a new function called on create menu options on
create menu options menu.
There we go.
So create options menu and before we do this return of the super create options menu we are going to
create a new value called inflator and we're going to say this is equal to a menu inflator.
And then we'll say inflator not inflate.
And this is where we'll do our our menu Snap's that one that we had just created and will also pass
in this menu object that comes in.
Okay.
So now go ahead and help us to create the menu but then we need to write some code for what happens
when someone selects one of those options.
So we're going to create another function here this one is going to be called on options and we want
items selected.
So on options items selected and before we do this return again this is where we want to do a little
if statement to see which are we working with someone wanting to create a new snap or are they trying
to log out.
So we'll just do if statement here and what we're going to check for is see if this item that was passed
through into our function if the item.
Let's do a question mark because that's unknowable and I'll say item not item Id see if this is equal
to our DOT ID dot and then this is where we would say for example create snap.
Right.
So then if that's not the case we're going to do an else and we want to do it exact same if like this
except that we'll go ahead and pace that rather than create snap we're going to see if this one's equal
to log out and then this way this is the code that runs if someone is trying to create a snap and this
is the code that runs if someone's trying to log out.
So let's go ahead and work first with if someone's trying to log out what do we need to do.
Well we need to go ahead and say finish which basically finishes this activity and move the moves of
the user back to the log in screen.
We also need to be able to sign out the user.
And that's a firebase skill that we're going to need it's a function there and so we're going to go
back to our main activity and just copy this code to get r.m off.
So go ahead and copy that come back and paste this in as a property.
And with that pasted in before we go ahead and finish this activity we're going to say am off dot and
simply just sign out and this is going to sign us out of the app which then means the next time we open
it that we'd be able to log in and move forward.
There's one more situation that I want to cover here and that's if the user hits the back button on
their own.
We also want to be able to sign out the user.
So we're going to type in the function on back pressed and inside of here after we do the super back
pressed we are going to do our same em off dot.
Sign out King.
So let's go ahead and give this a test and see if this is working on or emulator should simply be if
we try to log out that we will be able to log out and then once when we have that working we'll go ahead
move forward with creating the snap and all that good stuff.
So let's get our emulator opened up here.
Wait a moment for this to finish up there we go.
All right so here comes the app.
We are automatically logged into the screen so that means our code ran successfully that checks to see
if we're already assigned and user and we'll go ahead and now hit log out and boom all of a sudden we
are back here and then you know we'd have to provide our username and password so to check and see if
we were really logged out here.
Let's go ahead and just run this on the emulator one more time and this will tell us you know if the
app opens up and shows the logon screen that means we were successfully logged out and look at that
it did.
So I'm going to go ahead and sign it again.
Nick Zappy Cocom B C D.
One two three four.
Go ahead and hit go and boom we are back in and if we hit the back button for instance that will still
go ahead and sign us out or we can hit the go button and sign back in again.
Now if we want to go ahead and create a snap we have to have an activity that allows us to select an
image and then also provide some sort of message for the user.
And so we're going to have to make a new activity so let's do file we want new activity down here we'll
just start with a blank one.
And as far as the name for this goes lots of different options.
But I think maybe something like create snap sort of signifies what it is that we're trying to do because
this is where we say the image and the message and then the next activities will choose who it is that
we're sending it to.
But this is like the essence of the snap.
So I think create snap is a pretty good name.
So with this created Let's move back to our Snap's activity.
So if someone wants to create a snapchat to go ahead and write the code to make an intent that will
properly go ahead and get us there.
So what we want to do here.
Pretty straightforward.
We just want to create an intent and this will be equal to a new intent where we're going to have this
is the context and then we're going to move over to that create snap activity.
Colin Colin and this is where you want to say class dot job.
OK make sure we go ahead and get in 10 imported and then we can start that activity and pass in the
proper intent.
Really all that we need to do there but now we can go ahead and move on to our create snapped activity.
So what is it that we're trying to do here we're trying to allow the user to select an image and also
allow them to provide a message so let's go work on the visual side of this.
So here's our create snapshot X amount.
So the first thing that we want to add here is an image view.
So let's go ahead and go to our images bring out an image view and I kind of like as a default just
to have some sort of blank color.
So I'm just going to choose this color accent then with this as far as the size of this I want this
to be a standard size so I'm going to say something like 200 DP by 200 DP.
You can decide what's the proper size for you.
But I think that's a pretty decent image of you.
So with this lower right click and make sure that this gets centered let's have it up near the top.
I'm going to change this to 16 that sort of seems to be our magical spacing in between a lot of different
objects.
We then need a button to choose an image.
So I'm going to go ahead and put a button down below this image Reto and I'm going to right click this
and center that horizontally and then just change the name to be choose image.
All right.
We want to connect this up to our friends so we'll hit that.
It was almost at 16 it was at 15 cival will fix that real quick.
Then the next thing that we need is an edit text or the user can provide a message.
So we'll go ahead and bring out an edit text and make sure that this guy is centered and we'll put it
up near his friend let's change this to 16 and we're going to change this for him rather having any
text in it by default to just the hint that says hey this is where you're going to provide a message.
So with that in place we have everything that we need except for we have to have a button that sort
of says I want to move on to the next screen so we'll go ahead and just drag out one more button here.
Make sure that we can center this guy and also connect it up to its friend.
Have that be 16 and we'll change this to say next k.
So with all of this in place the app visually should be ok let's go ahead and give the proper IDs to
everything here.
So I think image view that's a fine name for what we've got going on here although I guess there's going
to be a blamers use so let's maybe call this create snap image view.
So create snap image view then for our button that we have here we'll have this called we'll call this
choose the image button and then we want to work with our edit text here.
We'll go ahead and call this message edit text and it will say yes.
And then finally we want to have our next button.
Although with this next button we won't probably have to work with the idea but let's just go ahead
and do it for good measure call that next button but then we'll go ahead and say for the choosing of
the image.
Well we want this to have an on click function.
We're going to call this use image clicked.
All right.
And for this next button we're going to have this called next clicked.
All right so with that in place I think we have everything ready to now go ahead and write some code.
So we're going to bring in a couple of things here.
So the first one is the image view.
So I'm going to call this the Create snap image view and this is going to be of type image view.
Nullable will initially set that equal to no want to be equal to no no just no auto complete You're
killing me here.
The next thing that we're going to want to do here is we want to get our message added text.
We'll say this should be of type text and also knowable and we'll set that equal to no initially.
OK so with those two things in place then we've got to make it so that we can you know start working
with these things and kind of the first functionality that we need is to allow it so that if someone
wants to add an image that we have all the functionality for that.
Now we've done this before in a previous project remember in section 5 when we were learning how to
add images into our project we've done that before.
And so I personally would recommend going to that app and copying pasting the text or the code that
we had there in order to do that because there's no point in sort of reinventing the wheel and typing
this stuff all out again.
So I've actually gone ahead and downloaded that if you need to get access to it that is in Section 5
and so let me go ahead and go to my downloads here.
And we want to get our option where we upload the image.
So the photo import demo that's the project that you should be looking for.
You want to drill down until you find the main activity from there.
But this is going to allow us to then sort of grab the code from that project and use that so I'm going
to go ahead and just hear an android studio open up that project.
So do file and I want to open up inside the downloads here.
Our photo important IMO.
So go ahead and open up that
and we'll just kind of go ahead and copy paste the code because again we know that we've done this before
let's just go ahead and reuse what we have and we're going to do this again when we're downloading image
so be ready to check that out.
But with this in place right there's a couple of awesome things that we've got here.
So the first thing that we want to do is when someone hits that they want to you know add a photo in
the app like what is it that we should be doing to check and see what's going on.
Well this is where we want to check and see if there was permission and if there's not permission right.
We need to go do things.
So in the import photo import demo app this is inside of the create.
So we're just going to go ahead and copy all of this code and you'll notice it's referencing this get
photo function so maybe we should import that first.
So I'm actually going to go ahead and copy and paste the photo first and we'll bring this into our project
here is going to ask do you want to convert this and we will say yes.
That came through beautifully.
Next we need to make to write some code whenever the user says that they want to import something so
if we go back here to our button the choose image let's see choose image clicked fact I'll just go ahead
and copy and paste that to make sure I don't make a mistake.
So function choose image clicked.
We will provide a view in the situation.
So let's go ahead and important that to our little curly brackets and now go over to this other project.
And again the code that's inside of the on Create we want to copy and put that inside of our Choose
image.
So choose image clicked.
We'll go ahead and paste this in.
Yes you want to do the proper converting here.
And that looks great.
Looks like it's doing everything that we need now we need to talk about you know what happens if somebody
you know picks the image right and then we go and get some information back for that.
Well if we go over to the other project this is the on activity results or we'll just go ahead and copy
all of this come back and paste this in.
And yes we want to make sure that Disko goes ahead and gets converted and we'll have to import a few
things here.
Now this code was referencing an image view that had the name of image view.
Right and so we had done this whole find view by ID stuff.
And we've already done that so we're actually just going to delete that line of code and then here where
it's referencing an image view.
This is where we're going to say oh this is the choose not choose image clicked to create snap image
view.
So go ahead and change us to the Create snap image view then with that in place.
We also need to talk about what happens.
Also this is when we got back the permission information where we need to talk about what happens when
we get back the actual you know data from the image so we'll go back.
No.
I'm all mixed up.
That's what that was.
It's this on request permission result that we want so let's copy.
This is one issue when you copy and paste sometimes you get mixed up with what you're working on but
it will save you a lot of time.
So here inside of our create snap we want to go ahead and paste in this we'll say yes to that and everything
is looking great here one thing what this creates snap images you are going to have to write a question
mark because that's knowable.
But with this this should be enough to get an image to show up inside of our app.
So let's go ahead and run this on our device and see if we can get at least an image from the sort of
photo library to show up.
Now if you don't have one go ahead and open up the camera on this emulator and that's where you can
take a picture of that little floating square that shows up on the screen with sort of the checkered
background but you'll need to have some sort of photo.
You could also go download a photo if you wanted to but you'll need something so that when you want
to select a photo that there will be something there.
So app opens up.
Let's say I want to create a new snap look at that takes us to our new activity and I hit this choose
image.
OK.
Well we are going to hit an issue here and that's because I forgot to ask for permission in order to
use you know access the user's photos and all that.
So let's go ahead and move over in our project here into the Android manifest and we've got to make
sure we ask for here use permission and we want to do the read external storage so Android permission
read external storage and we'll go ahead and close that up.
Now with that in place we should see Arap work out here so let's go ahead and run this on the emulator
one more time.
OK so the app opens up and say I want to create a new snap and I go to choose an image that's going
to say would you like to allow this.
I will say yes allow.
Then you can see oh and I thought I had a photo and apparently I don't.
So let's go ahead and go home here and open up the camera.
And I just want to take a photo.
Nice.
Now once I've taken a photo let me run the app one more time.
That it changes from red to green.
I thought it was just always one color.
All right so now I want to create a snap in to choose an image and look now that shows up how I already
did have an image.
But for whatever reason then let me pick one.
So I'll go ahead and select one and look at that.
It doesn't show up inside of the image.
So what gives.
Why isn't this showing up.
Well if we go back to our create snap activity in our uncreate We never set up the create snap image
view or the message edit text so here this is where we're going to say OK create snap image view you
are equal to find view by ID.
ID create a snap image view and then for a message edit text Let's go ahead and set this up while we're
at it.
We want to do our find view by ID card ID message and text.
All right.
So with that in place let's go ahead and try this.
Now you know we've we've come up a couple of times here and haven't gotten this to work so this hopefully
will be a moment of triumph for us and we can move forward.
So we'll go ahead and wait for app to finish up here while we watch this incredible square dance around
the screen and here we go.
Looks like our apps finally ready to rock n roll.
So here it is we want to create a snap.
I'm going to choose an image like this one and look at that.
We have it in place.
OK.
So with this then we are ready to move on to the next activity where the user is going to fill in.
You know and say oh I want to send it to this user but before we do that I want to teach you how we
can actually upload this image to the storage part of firebase and then talk about picking the user
because we don't want the user to select have to you know select somebody and wait for that image to
upload.
We should make it so when we hit this next button that starts that upload process.
So what we're going to do is go back to our app here and we're going to write a function for when next
is clicked.
So I believe that we just call that next click souls say next clicked.
And this is where we're going to pass in the view and we'll do our curly brackets like that.
And there's a whole bunch of information that we'll need in order to upload a photo and we can get that
from the documentation on the Web site.
So now you can see we've been working in the authentication world.
We're going to move down to storage.
So go ahead.
Open up storage you want to do Android get started and this will talk about how we can go ahead and
save things.
So first thing we've got to do install the SDK firebase console.
Yeah yeah yeah we've done that but oh look at this.
We need to make sure that we have the proper cloud storage for everything.
So with this we're going to go ahead and copy this line where it says compile go back to our project
and let's see we need to get to the cradle here.
And we want the app level 1.
So I'm going to go ahead and paste this in.
You will notice that this is seen firebase storage eleven point eight.
And we were working with eleven point six on the off.
So it looks like maybe there are between versions just to be consistent here.
I'm going to switch this to six because I want it to be eleven point six for everything because I think
that's what's going to work best.
Again you can experiment with this if you want but I'm just going to keep things sort of all on the
same version of say sync now so this will then add the ability to save and retrieve storage files from
firebase and if you're wondering what does that mean storage Well if you have any sort of file that
you want to upload images movies sound
documents whatever it is that you want to sort of store it's like a file that you want to save.
You need to use firebase storage.
But the great thing is they make it very very easy to work with.
And let me just go ahead and walk through what we've got to do and in fact on their Web site they have
great documentation about how you can actually go ahead and work with uploading an image so we're going
to do upload files here.
Go ahead and click on that and the one that we're looking for here is we want to upload from data in
memory and you can see they have an example here where they're actually taking something from an image
view and uploading it to firebase So that's pretty great for us.
We're going to go ahead and just copy all this code and come back to android studio and wow we have
a ton of tabs open up here.
We want to make it so that when the next is clicked this is where we'll then go you know write the code
for all this good stuff.
So let's just go ahead paste it in.
Say yes we want to go convert this stuff to Cartland will do enough to sort of change things around
here and the first one is any time that it's referencing image view we have to use the name of our image
view and it looks like we probably got a bad import here as well so I'm going to delete this import
just because I saw a read there.
But with this imported we're anywhere we see imagery we're going to have to use this create snap image
view so just copy that paste that and their pace and their pace and their looks good this byte array
outputs drame.
We just have to import the code so that option enter to get that going then next with this bitmap.
We've got to make sure we put a question mark here because that's unknowable nullable and this.
So basically the code that's going on here it's taking what we have inside of our image view.
It's turning it into to a bitmap and then turning that into a j peg file into this data that we can
then use to then upload to the firebase storage.
Now with this you'll see it's referencing something called Mountains ref and this is in their documentation
this whole big thing that they had done to get to the right place.
But let me instead show you how I would go ahead and talk about this so in our app we want to store
all of our images inside of a folder called images.
If we go back to firebase here if you click on storage it'll show you everything that's inside of storage.
And when you say get started here this will sort of open up for the first time and if you want to you
can create your own folders and upload files there but we're going to do this all via code.
So let's get back to our project here and we need to make what's called a reference which is sort of
like our starting point in order to be working with this.
And so what we're going to do is we're going to get access to firebase and we want storage.
And if you don't see that autocomplete it means something then go right with your build cradle and we're
going to do a lot get instance and we're going to do get reference and just think after you've done
get instance in dot get referenced this is essentially the starting point in firebase It's like gotten
you to this point.
So if we want to move into a folder that we're going to call images like we have to create that first
we're going to go after the stock get reference or going to say Dot child.
Think of child as adding something new like a folder or a file.
And so this is where we're going to say images right.
And I want to make a folder named images then we need to have a name for image.
And so we're going to say Dot child to add onto this and we're going to say some sort of image name
and this should be like ABC dot JPAC or something like that.
Now the one issue that we have here is we don't want to do ABC that Jay Pegge because we're going to
be uploading tons of images and if all of them have the name ABC they're going to overwrite each other
and so we need to have a unique name for every single image that we upload.
Now in order to do that there's this really awesome functionality called a you u ID which basically
gives you a unique string that is guaranteed to be unique.
I won't go into the details of it but it's really fascinating about how this is determined but if we
go up to the top here we are going to make this a property of our class that we are going to call it's
a value and we're going to call it Image Name Game.
So essentially we want Image Name to be this you you ID thing.
Plus we're going to go ahead and add a dot j peg on the end of that.
So how do we create one of these you IDs we're going to do all caps.
You you ID and you can see if you hit enter and we'll give you the proper import.
So you ID dot random you ID dot to string and that's all it takes.
So this is going to be like a 4 7 x 5 to blah blah blah whatever.
Plus a dot JPAC at the end.
So with that then all the way down here if we get back to this instead of saying ABC that jpeg will
just provide image name here and then we can then say OK we've got firebase storage get insensed a reference
we want to make a folder called images then we've given a name for an image that should go in that folder.
We're then going to cut and paste this right here so that when we get to the right file We're going
to say put bytes which basically says hey go upload something to the correct place.
Now if you know after we've gone and done this there's a couple of options here one.
If something doesn't work we have this failure.
And so we'd want to do something here like probably display a message to the user or we weren't able
to upload whatever.
In fact maybe let's just go ahead and make a toast real quick where we say toast make text this and
we'll say something like upload failed and we want to say how long that should go for.
Let's make that sure and show that.
All right.
But if this was successful Well then a couple of things happened.
One is we get this download your are about where we can access the image that was uploaded and then
because we're inside of this on Success List and we know that everything worked out.
So then we could go ahead and move onto the next activity or something like that.
But in this case let's just go ahead and log out this download your L to see what it is so we'll just
say your show and we want to pass forward this download.
You are all going gonna have to turn that into a string so we'll say to string on that.
But we should be able to successfully now upload an image when we hit that next button.
So let's go ahead and run our app on the emulator and see if this works.
Once we get this this will be a great place to sort of and and then we'll move forward in the next one
talking about how we can select who we want to send the snap to.
But with this in place let's go ahead and get our emulator up here and I'm going to go ahead move it
to the homescreen so we don't have the camera up all the time.
I just stare at that square not enough you'll go crazy I guarantee it.
And you don't want that.
So come on emulator we're really waiting for you.
Here we go.
All right.
Installing the phone and here's the app.
Start by creating a snap.
Let's choose an image that we want to upload to this little square guy and I'm going to do some sort
of message hello.
It won't matter because we won't see.
We're not taking that message anywhere but let's hit this next button and we'll just sort of wait around.
We didn't have anything if it was successful to happen yet but we don't see any text message yet.
So that is a good sign that something good has happened.
But to kind of confirm this let's first go ahead and log cat and see did it give us your all look at
that.
It did.
But you could also just go here to firebase and if you reload this page for storage make sure you have
storage clicked over here look there's a folder called images and if we click into this folder there's
this new image here and if we click on this you'll see a little preview of what it is and that's the
image and look and this is the name of that got 770 d f 9 6 blah blah blah all this random hoo ha here.
So this works or if you go back to android studio we could actually copy the URL here and we could paste
this end and we could go ahead and just see the image straight up at the storage location in firebase.
So pretty great position right now we are able to sign in.
We're able to create a new snap upload that to firebase our next step is going to be selecting who it
is that we're going to send this to and get all the appropriate information about like you know what
use are we trying to send this to.
What's the message that trying to send make sure we get the image you know provided at least the image
you are l and we're going to talk about all that in the next one.